Competitor Indication Spot - 
As part of Market making team in the EMEA region we conduct our business from LDN 7Am to LDN 9PM. This means we do product pricing and trading widely outside of Exchange hours. This presents a critical challenge in that we need to accurately price underlying assets out of market hrs. If not done correctly we will either lose due to arbitrage or will have to keep wide spreads which will make our products unattractive comparted to competition and reduce business. 
So we were trying to understand how an arbitrageur would realize a potential opportunity and reached the conclusion that by comparing similar product form different issuer one can identify such an opportunity. We decided to use this to our advantage, and by subscribing to other issuer products and implementing appropriate algorithm we can reverse engineer underlying price and use them to identify mispricing and as secondary source of price at out of hrs.
We used products with simple relation between bid and intrinsic e.g. Mini Futures
 for minis, ul_spot  = strike +- bid*FX/ratio (Call+/Put-)
Now, all issuers charge fees and edges which would cause distortion in calculated spot. Since fees and edges is depenedent on market volatility so our indication spot qualiity would suffer during times of high volatility. To fix this problem I need to come up with an algorithm that can self adjust for edge related distortion at all times. So I started drill down on individual stocks and related products to identify patterns and verify if such patterns existed across assets. After my reserch and analysis I found an interesting relationship between issuer, option type, leverage and came up with a hypothesis that 
given a long and a short mini with equal leverage and same % edge charged, the impact of edge on calculated spot will be equal and opposite.
so, if we take 1 call and 1 put of same leverage from same issuer and take average of calculated spot then this cancels out the effect of edge. This can be proven mathematically. So I devised an algorithm that can use above idea and data available to us to generate a near perfect price for assets.
Algorithm:
For each assets
1) Bucketize all products by issuers, then by leverage bucket (<5, 5-10, >10) and finally into calls or puts. 
2) Take count & average of spot for each product for all buckets. Calculate issuer spot by taking average of spot from buckets. Calculate total number of calls and puts for each issuer.
3) Take Weighted average of the issuer spot for final spot, where weight is Sqrt( Min(Number of Calls, Number of Puts) ) for each issuer.
We are taking min of number of calls and puts because a balanced portfolio indicates better confidence level from an issuer. And I used square root because emperically I wanted to have higher weight for issuer with more products but at the same time i didn't wanted to have a scenario where one issuer with a lot of products is completely driving the price.
As a result of the new algorithm our Time weighted average deviation went from 20-150 bps to under 5 bps. And our arbitrage losses reduced. A rough PnL estimate says that we will save 2-3 Million USD annualized due to this.
